[MUSIC]
>> Douglas: So let's look at
the attack that we've just outlined.
So we've got a global variable,
I'm calling it stash.
Someone suggested a global variable and
there it is.
Then we will store into push a function
which will take this and
store it in that global variable.
And then in order to get to this function
to be executed, you call append.
append will call the push, and
because this is a method invocation,
this will be bound to the array.
>> Douglas: So
this attack exploits several
confusions that are in this language.
The principle confusion is,
there are not arrays in this language.
They don't behave like
arrays in other languages.
But we think that we do and even
the people who built JavaScript engines,
when they were shown this problem,
they know how arrays in JavaScript work,
at least better than anybody.
And they couldn't see it because
everybody thinks this is what arrays do.
So when you have this I here,
even though we know we don't have
ints in this language,
everybody thinks it's an int, right?
So it doesn't occur to anybody
that this could be anything else.
But it's just a key, right?
That in fact what JavaScript will do
is it will take whatever you pass in.
If it's not a string here it
will turn it into a string.
>> Douglas: That's what JavaScript does
but that's not how we think a programming
language should behave, right?
And when you have a system that does
something other than what we expect,
you get confusion and confusion can lead
to security exploits, as in this case.
The other source of this problem is that
all variable bindings in the language
are static, because functions scope,
if array is defined there then this
one will be bound to that one.
It's predictable with
the exception of this.
This is bound dynamically.
And so it's much harder to reason about
what the value of this is gonna be at any
instant because it can be different
depending on where it's called and
when it's called.
And that turns out, if you're thinking
about the security of systems or
the reliability of systems,
to be a bad thing.
That's why I prefer to try to figure out
ways of programming in this language
that don't depend on this since
this tends to be unreliable.
So what you think of that problem,
is that interesting?
So, now that you understand the attack,
how would you correct this code to
prevent that attack from happening?
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Just to give credit,
Vincent in the chat room I think he had
got this a little bit before we did, but
then he's saying to fix it,
he would just force the (i) to an int,
like +i.
>> Douglas: That's exactly right.
I would do that too.
So, I would put a +i here.
What that accomplishes is is plus
will turn the string into a number.
If you pass in a number,
it just stays a number so it's a no op.
But if you pass in the word push,
it will turn it into a number.
What number does push turn into?
NaN, and so then turn NaN into a string.
So, we'll be storing v at array.NaN which
is stupid but at least it's not push.
Right, so we get around that.
The other thing we could
do is not use push,
instead use the old fashioned way
of assigning to the current length.
This illustrates another design
error in the language that I think
something as fundamental as appending
to an array should be an operator.
It should be something that's just
built into the language which can't be
corrupted, but it's not.
JavaScript allows, and there's also the
weird way of about how these get pound.
So, ordinarily you would
when you call push method,
you're going to be using
the inherited array.prototype.push.
But when we assigned our own push
property to this object using store,
now push is local and so
we don't look array.prototype.push.
And that again doesn't match
most people's mindset about how
programming language should work.
That's probably not the kind of behavior
that you want this function to be
able to to modify.
>> Douglas: So
what do you think of that problem,
was that fun, was that interesting?
>> Speaker 3: Yes.
>> Douglas: Sir.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah?
Why not just give JavaScript real arrays,
is it going to break it?
>> Douglas: Absolutely, break it.
Yeah, there's code all over
the Internet that assumes this
terrible behavior
>> Speaker 3: And you can't just say that
ECMA 6 is a new standard that has a new.
>> Douglas: I wish, the way,
the web is unlike any other platform
in that, if you're developing a server,
you dictate what software is installed on
that at what revision level and so on.
You've got control over everything
happening on the server so
you can dictate that stuff.
And so you can tolerate breaking changes
because you decide when you're going to
make the change.
But on the web, you have to run with what
ever it is that someone's got installed.
And if they're running some awful old
thing your code is still expected to run
on that old thing.
>> Speaker 3: So for ECMA 6,
they're gonna have to have some new.
I'm sorry, I don't how to continue,
sorry to, they're gonna have to have
a new stuff that can eat ECMA 6, right?
>> Douglas: Right.
>> Speaker 3: So why not create a new
thing instead of an array, call it a list.
>> Douglas: They could do that,
in fact they have added new things in ES6,
for example,
there's a new thing called a map which
behaves like objects should behave.
It is more correctly like a hash table and
there are new forms for doing that but
it doesn't look like this.
And so it's gonna be very difficult to get
people to use it because it doesn't have
the syntactic conveniences that this one
has
>> Douglas: Yeah, so the-
>> Speaker 3: I know there are good
answers for these things, I'm just
>> Douglas: No,
I'm not trying to wave it off, I mean, the
web is a really, once we make a mistake
in a web standard we're stuck with it.
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas: And all we can do
is pile on more mistakes on top of it,
we can't correct any of the stuff
that's ever been done [LAUGH] And so
working with web standards as you all know
is incredibly frustrating because nothing
ever gets better, it just gets bigger.
>> Speaker 3: They didn't get rid of
the blank tag.
>> Douglas: Well, not entirely.
I mean you can still write blink and it's
not gonna give you headaches anymore, but
it's still allowed, it's still building
structures in the Dom, it's still there.
And in fact, you can write CSS, which will
cause the blink to come back to life.
>> Speaker 3: [INAUDIBLE] [LAUGH]
>> Douglas: So it's [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 4: Yeah, people have written
JavaScript plugins in CSS.
>> Douglas: Yeah,
it-
>> Speaker 4: Bring back
the geocities page.
Bring back the blink.
>> Douglas: Yeah, it's very,
very hard to fix the Web.
Cuz when something wrong happens,
the problem with the wrong
things isn't that they're useless,
it's that they're dangerous and weird.
And there are very clever
people who will go wow,
that's crappy, what can I do with that?
And they'll figure it out.
They'll take the stupidest thing
you ever saw and it now becomes
part of some popular library and
we can't get rid of it anymore.